## Thoughts about constructed language and culture

2021-04-03:

What's stopping me from making a language?

I want to make *just one* language that somehow covers the
whole aesthetic gamut; I actually don't think this is
possible.

I might be better off making several languages.

I am usually unsatisfied with the first example sentences I
write in a language and I don't know how to make them
better. They always seem clunky and not naturalistic.

Possible solution: use a wider variety of source texts to
translate. I tend to translate boring, clunky sentences.

I don't have fun with the part of language creation that's
supposed to be fun: making up words. I don't like the words
I create. But I feel I have to commit to them because I know
that if I change them later I'll have to rewrite the grammar
and all the examples.

One way I've solved this is to just import Sindarin vocab,
but that only works for languages with a P-Celtic aesthetic.

Maybe I should try just sitting down with the Lexipedia,
and translating each of the concepts in frequency order.

I feel pressure to be "original" but don't actually want to
put in the effort to learn a whole new way of thinking. I
want to be fluent in a language that's meaningfully
different from English, but I'm not sure what "meaningfully"
means in this context.

At other times I think it doesn't really matter what I
create; there's no way I could *possibly* create something
as stultifying and banal as modern English.

I feel pressure to create "logical" grammar structures
because I think they'll be easier to learn and understand.
But then I get frustrated at the ambiguities and the
ugliness involved in resolving them completely.

I should remember that all human languages are ambiguous in
certain ways and use various disambiguation strategies for
the things that are most likely to be misunderstood.
Everyone seems to be fine with this. Humans are pretty good
at dealing with a certain level of ambiguity without even
noticing it.

If my goal is ease of learning, tolerating ambiguity is
actually a good strategy. If it's ease of
understanding--same. Humans don't actually parse like
machines do. They seem to group words into the phrases that
seem most probable, bottom-up (much like my first Lembic
parser, incidentally) and only backtrack if that leads to a
parsing error. Also, it seems like a full parse is not
really necessary for understanding; a bag of words is often
sufficient to convey meaning in context; the ability to
create phrases just increases the level of complexity of the
things you can put in the bag.

If I'm going to create several languages, what would they be?

- P-Celtic
- Q-Celtic
- Finnish / Greenlandic
- Old English / Gothic
- Latin?
- Nahuatl

---
